---
layout: post
title: startbootstrap-clean theme contact form 
subtitle: ... using it on godaddy hosting
author: geoffm
date: 2015-04-03
image: "/img/mail.jpg"
comments: true
tags: ["jekyll"]
---


Getting the contact form to work on godaddy hosting was a trip, an ugly
trip. 

The contact form built into the jekyll startbootstrap-clean theme coding
is a bit convoluted and needed tweaking to get it working. 

- first you change the mail/contact_me.php to include to your email address
 (no problem there)
- but it failed so I used google chrome developer tool (Ctrl-Shft-I) to diagnose what was failing. 
It was looking for the php script at /contact/mail/contact_me.php instead of /mail/contact_me.php
(easily fixed by moving it).
- by the way - this form does not pass the POST variables directly to the on script - it uses js/bootstrap-clean.js 
 (which has been minified into js/bootstrap-clean-min.js) to validate the form entries and passes it on to contact_me.php 
as POST variables.
- however, on godaddy hosting they restrict things quite a bit and you need to use their tools
to send email. They place into your basic web site gdform.php and webformmailer.php (which is a link). I tried
replacing contact_me.php with each of these... only gdform.php worked. Their gdform.php script actually writes
out your POSTED variables into a dated file (eg gform_8935621) into you $HOME/data/ directory. A cron job periodically
mails out any gform_xxxxxxx file it finds to you.
- bottom line ... I saved the original contact_me.php off and then on my godaddy site I copied gdform.php to /contact/mail/contact_me.php
and all problems solved. Your contact email will eventually come when the cron runs to send it. You can check new conntact requests
by looking for $HOME/data/gdform-xxxxxxx files.

<!--more-->

Make sure if you sync files form you local machine to your website that you change
your local contact_me.php similarly.

Enjoy
-g-
